Yeah, all right, so that's how Streamplace
VOD works, I hope you all enjoyed the presentation.
My name is Eli Mallon, I'm the CEO and founder
of Streamplace, I don't care about my Carabiner
update version.
So the crux of this talk was if you are going
to make a system that has both VOD and live, can
that be muted at all?
You should probably start with live, live video is more difficult than
VOD, it is much easier to generalize live video to
VOD than it is to go the opposite direction.
So we started out with live, we're pretty happy with that,
and knock on wood, of course as soon as I walked out
of the other room people started reporting playback issues over there, but
overall everything's been going really well at all of this.
So I'll start by sort of explaining how Streamplace, a
quick explanation of how Streamplace live works, because I've talked
about this a lot before, and then we'll talk about how
we're adapting that for a decentralized VOD primitive.
What does it mean to have something like, you know, what would
a decentralized YouTube look like?
What things do you need in order to make that happen?
So yeah, this is just about Streamplace.
There's been three Streamplace third-party clients created since the
beginning of this conference.
So I don't know if that reflects poorly on our front
end, or if it just represents, you know, the entrepreneurial spirit of
the at-proto community, but this one's from jack.
xyz, and it shows all of the streams at once, really
given the Streamplace servers the maximum workout to give everybody what
they're looking for there.
Before we do anything else, hey, I found this MP4 file
on the ground.
Let's see what it is.
You can all imagine the great noises Trabio is making
here.
What's going to happen?
And wait for it.
Yeah, we got him!
Yeah!
So that MP4 file I found on the ground turned out
to be my glorious victory over Trabio.
So how do I know that?
How do I know it's Eli's livestream that happened there?
And that has to do with Streamplace's signing format.
So we needed to...
So decentralized VOD is something that's kind of existed before,
right?
You could argue...
This will be a popular opinion.
You could argue video NFTs are kind of like a decentralized
VOD, right?
Where you've got an IPFS reference to something that's,
like, out there and not controlled by any one party, lots of
other, like, IPFS-based, like, there's, like, DAT-based
live streaming that maybe falls into that.
But for the most part, we needed to invent what a decentralized
live stream is.
So what we did was we took the first thing that happens
is you generate a signing key, same as the kind that's
used to secure your app proto repository.
We then take that signing key.
You then configure your OBS instance, just like we're doing
here, to stream in to Streamplace.
You actually provide it with that signing key, so it has the
capability of signing on your behalf.
If you really care about your key custody, you should run Stream
place locally and then syndicate it out to a server.
Then this is basically every live stream you've ever watched, if
you haven't messed with video infrastructure before, is just a bunch
of short video files that are thrown into your face in sequence,
and it provides the illusion of a live stream.
So that's how we do it.
Each MP4 file comes in.
We give each one of them an embedded signature using technology from
the C2PA, the Coalition for Content Provenance and
Authenticity.
Cool format.
It provides a mechanism for giving you an MP4 file that
contains an embedded signature over a hash of all of that MP
4 file except for that part of the signature.
That's really tricky to get right, and that's one of
the things I really like about the C2PA's tooling
is you've got this, a lot of decentralized media projects have
external signatures, so you might have, this actually included like blue sky
videos, right?
How do you know it's my blue sky video?
It's because there's a blob out there that is referenced
by a record in my repository, and my repository has a signature
on the root commit, so that's how you know it's
mine, right?
What I like about this format is I can have, this is
the MP4 file on the ground example I just gave, right?
You can have arbitrary MP4 file on your computer, and all
of that signing and provenance data is intact and embedded in
the MP4 file.
So I like that a lot.
It's something we really wanted to preserve as we moved from
live to VOD, and lots of very cool metadata in here.
We're not doing too much with this mechanism yet.
I spent a long time talking to Trezzy yesterday about
embedding this.
Part of the embedded metadata here should be that I'm playing
Silksong, right?
And then if you care about Silksong, you can watch
that livestream and get that data from from, like, pretty much any
direction, right?
Like, you can download it from sketchiest website in the world.
ru and still be confident that you're looking at the right
thing, right?
And then I'm playing Silksong.
Those, yeah, that's this example.
I have, yeah, we've made StreamPlace as easy to
run as possible, so you can run your own StreamPlace
node, syndicate my streams, they get copied over in this sort
of trustless, unauthenticated way, and then you see
it over there.
So the thinking here is we probably won't beat Twitch by
making a bigger data center or buying more bandwidth than Amazon, but
we might be able to beat them by following the example of
BitTorrent, right?
That you can have lots of decentralized infrastructure that's replicating
all of this, but through the magic of digital signatures, you know
that the video is authentic.
So what's the problem?
This isn't very convenient.
So when I say slice the video up into one-second MP
4 files, I'm being very literal about that.
If you run StreamPlace on your computer, you can navigate
to this and see lots and lots and lots of one-second
MP4 files.
And when the computer is processing them all and feeding to you
as a live stream, that's okay.
Afterward, when you want to work with this as a V
OD, it's a pain in the ass.
So we wanted, this was one of the design goals of V
OD for us, is how do we handle that?
And unfortunately, because we used regular MP4 files, they're non-
concatenatable.
You can't take two MP4 files, squish all the bytes
together, and get valid output, right?
That's just not, now MP4 works.
It's not valid data there.
So you'd have to mux it, and the signature that
you get there wouldn't match the input, and all of a
sudden you've broken this entire cool BitTorrent-y
provenance mechanism that I was just describing.
So this is the other reason we were already looking at for
king C2PA.
So here we have a list of signing algorithms.
As you can see here, we have the good and virtuous EC-
DSA signature over a SHA-256 hash, over the P-
256 curve, but not over the SCCP-256-K
1 curve, the evil, shady curve that's used inside BitT
orrent and Ethereum and AppRoto, right?
So I think my theory here is that somebody in Adobe had
to sell their, some exec that they weren't making blockchain software
here.
So we didn't do that kind of signing.
We only did this kind of signing.
So technically, for as long as StreamPlace has existed, it
hasn't been C2PA compatible, and I had been looking
for a while to formalize that.
So, oh yeah, this is the other.
So this is the other.
So Adobe's out there right now lobbying, especially European governments and
the state of California to require provenance data on everything that
you post on social media.
This is the reason for the C2PA's existence, getting
us ready for a world filled with deep fakes.
This is not inherently a bad idea.
You know, once anybody can deep fake anything, how do you ever
trust what you're looking at?
No one technical mechanism can solve that problem.
But one way you could be more confident is if there was
provenance data embedded in the live stream, right?
Where it says, oh, this video was taken from Eli's camera
and then edited using this software and makes its way everywhere, right?
But the reason Adobe's doing this lobbying is because they want
to try and do some regulatory capture, right?
So they want to sell governments these expensive Creative Cloud subscriptions and
be like the only software that you could possibly use in order
to do all of that stuff.
Also, the part I think is really funny is they want you
to go pay like a CA, like $107 a month
for a signing certificate.
Like, let's encrypt and everything never happened.
And, of course, like the App Proto and decentralized web communities,
we have, you know, dids and totally other stacks of how
we would handle some of this stuff, right?
How we would handle key custody, how we would handle authenticity, that
kind of thing.
PLC directories got its own, got its own sort of
take on everything.
So, yeah, some good ideas needs to be modernized and not
try and pay these vendors a bunch of money for certificates.
So, I said all of these things out loud a lot and
the folks, the good folks at the IPFS Foundation and the
Dazzle Project were very, very receptive to it.
So, they've given us a grant, everything you see so far,
everything you see past this point in the presentation is a result
of the grant that we got from the IPFS Foundation.
So, we're working on two specs with them, Stupa and
Muxle.
Stupa is the simple standard for provenance and authenticity.
This is the simpler of the two standards.
It's very much, thank you, Ted.
Look at that.
Ted got me a glass of water.
Everybody thank Ted.
That was awesome.
Stupa is our, I don't know what makes a fork
a hostile fork, but it's definitely a fork of the C
2PA that takes out all the things.
It actually doesn't take out anything.
Like, if you want to pay DigiCert 200 bucks
a month, you totally can.
But we have some different opinions about that.
We have dids, right?
So, instead of signing it with some cert that you're given
by a CA, you sign it with a signing key that has
a provenance chain back to your at proto identity, right?
And then we also, like, make it consistent with Dazzle.
The C2PA signatures, C2PA manifests, rather, already use
C-Bore.
So, we're just upgrading it to use Drizzle.
Drizzle, Dazzle's, a very strict subset of C-
Bore used in at proto, right?
That's Stupa.
That's all of Stupa.
The rest of the presentation is about Muxle because it
's way more complicated.
This is just a little change that we're making here.
Would love if they upstreamed it.
Would love if there were dids and K256 signing
in C2PA.
So, let's talk about the design goals for Muxle.
This is basically, what changes do we need to make to those
MP4 files that I described before in order to make them
appropriate for VOD?
So, you don't have thousands and thousands of MP4 files
on your computer after a long live stream.
So, we want to keep the property that they're self-cert
ifying.
It's awesome that you can just find one of these files
and then go verify its provenance chain.
You shouldn't require external data, right?
As a design goal, we want to support live stream to V
OD, what video engineers call DVR.
Basically, if you're watching a live stream, that you can seek
back and see what happened one minute ago, two minutes ago, three
minutes ago, that kind of thing.
It would be nice if it's a useful format.
I don't want to give you some opaque C-Bore
blob or something.
A design goal of this is that at the end of it,
you have, at the end of a 24-hour live stream, you
should have a 24-hour MP4 file on your computer.
Easiest to work with, maximally compatible, preserves all of
the provenance information I was describing.
And it should be streamable with minimal overhead.
I'm not going to get too deep into media over quick
in this presentation, though I would love to, but we don't
want to do a bunch of extra effort to go from the
canonical format that we're going to use for all of this
to actually streaming it to users, right?
We shouldn't need to re-encode or anything like that.
Unfortunately, that is an impossible series of constraints.
Fundamentally, the reason being that if the output is going
to be just an MP4 file on your computer, that is
completely different than the format that media over quick uses that's
going to be useful for sending things to users, in particular with
things like multiple tracks, right?
We really want to do multi-track video, multi-track audio, 720
p, a bunch of other 1080p, different audio formats, AAC
and Opus for different things.
All of that complexity, we would like to be able to package
in this one file and that skyrockets the bandwidth that
you would use to send it out to people, right?
You don't want to send them every rendition, you want
to send them just one.
So, how do we get around that?
And the answer is we mux.
This is why it's called muxle.
So, the key insight here is that the archival format, so
this is to say the MP4 file on your computer, the
streaming format, which is the format the video is in when it
goes over media over quick and streams to a user, and the
self-certifying format that has this intact signature that you use
to validate that the media is who it says it is and
get all the nice metadata, they don't all have to be
the same format.
As long as we can deterministically mux between them.
As long as if you have one of these formats, there is
a deterministic algorithm you can use to turn it into any
one of these other formats.
So, we've accomplished this with WASM, primarily.
WASM, especially the latest version of WASM, has a fully
deterministic profile.
Even short of that, you know, Rust compiled to WASM, and
then you pipe some bytes through it, you're very, very likely
to get the same bytes out through the output, right?
So, this is, yeah.
So, let's get into the different formats that we're using
inside of here.
I'm going to get deep into MP4 file specifics.
I don't, I wouldn't wish this upon anyone, having to
dive this deep into the MP4 specs.
I had to pay $300 for a PDF file.
So, yes, this is the whole point of Stream Places.
These are the hard work we do, the hard problems we solve.
So, none of you have to, right?
So, we, the base primitives here that are part of M
uxle.
First, we have video metadata.
I borrow a lot of this terminology from a spec called Hang.
That's from Luke Curley, who created the Media over Quick
spec.
So, this is, catalog is his term for this.
But this is all of the metadata that you need to understand
the video.
I can't just, video decoders won't just accept
some random video bytes.
You have to say, no, this, these, these video bytes are, for
example, 1920 by 1080 at 60 FPS.
You've got the, the time scale and then a canonical track
ID for, for everything that goes into this, right?
How many channels is the audio?
I don't know if it's listed in here, but this
would have stuff like, what language is the audio?
If we've got the audio translated into several different languages, that
would be included in this metadata.
This is nice to separate out because from a low latency transmission
perspective, you don't want to repeat this stuff, right?
You don't want to say, hey, 1080p video, 1080p
video, like, you know it's 1080p video because the last
500 segments were 1080p video, right?
So, we send, we can send this once at the start and
not have to repeat it.
I'm not quite getting into the at proto stuff here, but
just at the bottom there, a little, a little teaser of, of
what this might look like if you wanted to put it in
that proto repository, that this could be a place.
stream.
muxle.
catalog record.
We'll get to how it actually works in a minute.
This lets us make init segments.
Now we're talking about mp4 atoms.
This is fun.
So, this data represented as like JSON or Cbor or whatever
and stored in your at proto repository is enough to create, actually
deterministically create the start of the mp4 file, which
is called the init segment.
The very beginning of the mp4 file that contains the
file type atom telling you this is an mp4 file
and the move atom that describes, for example, the duration of the
video, what all the tracks are.
There's a bunch of, this is like the mp4
encoding of all that metadata that I just described.
This is the beginning of the mxle file, init segment.
We then split up the video into mxle segments.
This, again, is borrowed, this is pretty much verbatim hang
CMAF, which is part of the media over quick spec,
which is awesome, because that means it's going to stream very
efficiently to users eventually.
And so, this is just repeated every frame gets its own, what
's called a MOF and an MDAT, so little segments,
little slivers of the mp4 file that represent each
frame, each video or audio frame, essentially.
Easy enough, but we're going to do a lot with these
in a minute.
And then we go back to that stupa specification I was
talking about a second ago, the C2PA stuff.
So, this is, we can take, this is the canonical signed format.
This is the thing that you, when you get this format, you
can validate the signature, validate the provenance claim.
No, this is actually definitely Eli's C2PA signed video
file, this is actually me beating Trabio or whatever.
And this is, this is great, this is not necessarily the best
format for archival and playback, right?
So, one key insight and like the eureka moment I had
when making this is like, okay, so this is like the canonical
thing, but you wouldn't ever write this to your hard drive.
Or if you did, because you're repeating the beginning of the
file, the file type stuff, this is how, this would get you
right back to one second mp4 files on your computer
over and over and over, right?
So, while this is like, you consider this like the base unit
of Streamplay streaming or of, or a VOD or what
have you, this, yeah, you'd never actually write one of these
to the hard drive unless you were like debugging or something like
that, right?
What would you write to the hard drive, you ask?
You would write a Moxel Archive.
Blake 3, I know, hang out with that proto people, I know
a lot of protocol engineers, every one of them has had a
moment where they take me aside and they're like, Eli, you
should really be using Blake 3 for this stuff.
And I agree with them, eventually.
So, this is what you would write to your hard drive, right?
So, this is the init segment, this is the part where you
say it's 1080p video, then you have all of these,
each of these is what's called a gop segment, so
a keyframe of video followed by a bunch of other frames
and then a keyframe and then a bunch of other frames.
And the cool thing about this is we've totally messed up
the signature now, right?
Because the signature is over this file with an init segment and
a video gop and an audio gop and then a
manifest, right?
This is the thing that we signed.
This doesn't look like that at all.
I've even just kind of put the manifest at the end
there.
But because we have deterministic muxing tools, we can
recover this.
We can recover the signed canonical thing, right?
This format, however, is really, really useful for VOD because if
you are, I'll show you why.
See?
It's like this.
So this is a HLS playlist.
This is how you don't know it, but most of the
time you've played video on the internet.
You've had one of these happening in the background.
And what this does is takes all of those, this is just
the video playlist.
This just tells you how to do the video.
The audio is referenced in a different manifest.
And basically what this gives you is a byte range, an index
into that file.
So you can say this here says this is one second of
video.
You can find it at this index of this file.
This is one second of video.
And this is all you need for efficient VOD playback.
If you're doing it live, there's disadvantages to doing it
this way.
You probably want to use media over quick and some of the
other formats that we talked about.
But for VOD, this is really, really good.
And we've achieved one of our design goals because all of
these, it's just referencing different byte ranges in archive.
muxle.
mp4, right?
So the thing that is, I've been saying on your computer,
but the thing for video, the thing that's in your app
repository is just one big mp4 file.
That's really easy to understand.
The other thing we get from this is the Blake3 sid,
the magic of Blake3, why was it that all those video
engineers were telling me that I needed to use Blake3?
It's because this Blake3 hash is a Merkle tree
over this file that you see here, which means you can request
just that part that says track one, got one there.
And through cryptographic verification, you can be 100% confident that
that is the correct data that you've pulled out of there,
right?
You can verify, yes, this is in fact part of this Blake
3 sid, which is really, really useful when you're doing something
like a CDN.
Because then you can make all these, you can be backing it
with just one big file, you can make these byte range requests,
you still get the cryptographic integrity that like, oh yes, that
hash matches what I saw in Eli's at proto-reposit
ory.
So this is a really, really good format for this.
Cool.
So, yes, three different formats that we have here.
So, the archival format, which is the big MP4 file
that goes in your at proto-repository.
The self-certifying format, which is the part that has the
C2PA signature attached.
And the streaming format, which is just when you're actually sending
it out, you just send this part, right?
You stream this stuff, each frame of video and audio directly to
users.
So, for all the at proto-people that didn't care about
all the different structures of the MP4 file, how do you
use all of this?
We're not quite ready for it, but the very first V
ODs available on Stream Plays are going to follow this
format, and it's going to be all of the talks from
this conference.
They will be published to at proto-repository.
And you'll be able to work with them.
This is a little preview of what this looks like.
So, we have a, yeah.
So, the man, as you might expect, the lexicon type
for this is a place.
stream.
video.
It's got things like creator.
Some of this metadata in here.
This is like, I'm pretending this is the one for this
talk.
I don't have a VOD for this talk because I
'm still doing this talk, so you don't know what the
hash is yet.
It's got, it's just, as I said, it's just
a blob.
It's a video MP4 file, but it is very, very
easily cacheable.
You've got a nanosecond duration in there.
We, the design constraints for this, I've been targeting that the
maximum length of one of these is going to be 24 hours
because at a certain point, it gets sort of ridiculous.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And I don't want to, like, overflow the nanosecond
duration, but if you've got a 24-7 live stream, that
seems like a reasonable primitive that, like, each day of streaming that
you would stream into would become its own VOD with a
24-hour duration, right?
And then it's got a live stream reference.
So, yeah.
So, all of this will be available.
Yeah, I was hoping to have all of this available, and I
was like, oh, we're going to announce it in this talk,
and it's going to be big, and we're, like, really,
really close, but I didn't want to push a bunch of
changes to StreamPlace right before we did all the live
streaming and screw everything else up, right?
So, I did try to do that.
We did that.
I did at about 7.
10 this morning.
I'm like, all right, let's push the muxle
changes.
Let's see.
And then immediately that laptop couldn't stream into StreamPlace
anymore for whatever reason.
So, I was like, nope, nope, back, revert, we're going
to, we'll do it, we'll do it after.
So, that's all by way of saying this is all very,
very close, and we're hoping to give it to the community
very, very soon.
And, yeah, and then build it with everybody, right?
So, we don't have a front end for it.
I'm going to challenge, we're going to do a little
VOD jam and say, hey, at Proto Community, here's
the videos, build me a front end for it.
Given that without me asking, we got three front ends for Stream
Place in the last three days, I feel like in the
vibe coding era, we're going to get some submissions.
If you submit one of these, you're going to earn a
badge next to your chat name in StreamPlace from now
until the end of time.
So, yeah, that's it.
That's how StreamPlace works, VOD.
We have a few online questions.
Great.
Most of which I don't really understand.
Awesome.
The big alternative,
YMP4, there's a couple of reasons.
One, because it's the most ubiquitous media format, and that
's the most highly compatible across everything, the second is, it gives
us the media overquick stuff, tends to support it a
lot already.
Also, the FM, so this is like CMAF, back to
this thing, this is like CMAF MP4 playback, and
the advantage here is it lets you separate out, it gives you
that lack of redundancy that I was describing where the init
segment isn't, there are other formats that embed all of that
init data in every segment, but we don't actually want that
because it's redundant for a long video, so, yeah, those reasons.
The question was, why H.
264 instead of, like, VP9 or AV1?
No reason other than maximum compatibility right now.
We really, really want AV1 in StreamPlace.
We fully intend to support AV1 as much as we do
H.
264, especially when we do stuff like, I want StreamP
lace to do a lot of things that no other streaming platforms
do, like, for example, like, 4K, 120 FPS AV1 video
would be so sick.
Can't even do it, I've tried to do it with
H.
264, it just, like, doesn't, no encoder can even
come close to handling that, so, yeah, yeah, in terms of code
c support, we want to support, like, every codec that it
makes sense to.
We just started with this because we're not quite in a
world where I could probably get away with AV1 only, and
we would have needed an H.
264 backup anyway, in that context, that's why we started
with H.
264, but, yeah, definitely want to support lots of codec.
Thanks.
Thank you.